# teal_carbon_pydev

My current graduate research project identifies wetlands from digital elevation models (DEMs) with a probability scale and integrates belowground carbon measurements to make landscape carbon stock models. The first component of this project requires the calculation topographic metrics from DEMs. First, topographic wetness index (TWI), slope, and catchment contributing area are calculated from the DEM at its scale. Then, additional topographic metrics of gradient, plan curvature, profile curvature, and relief are calculated at 50-, 150-, and 300-meter length scales. The second part of the project involves using a random forest classification model to classify each pixel in the study area with a probability value of a wetland occurring. This requires, training data which we use from the National Wetland Inventory (NWI) dataset to train the random forest model to identify both wetlands and uplands. The output is a map of continuous wetland probability across the scale of the original DEM. In contrast to maps which usually use polygons to represent wetlands. All of this takes place within ArcGIS with a few challenging steps and limitations. I am interested in developing a more open-source alternative to this analysis.
	For my class project, I want to propose undertaking the first part of the project: deriving surface metrics from the DEM of a study area in python. I have looked into tools and modules such as ‘richdem’1, ‘whitebox_tools’2, and the recent ‘lidar’3 python package to undertake this facet of the project. A specific goal would be to build a smooth workflow to import any DEM for this part of the analysis. In addition, I would also like to import the NWI dataset and derive randomized points within and outside of wetland polygons to generate training data for the DEM area. The second part of the project is more challenging and would be to create a random forest model to replicate the wetland probability analysis in part two of my graduate research project. I’m more unfamiliar with random forest and machine learning in general but importing this analysis into a python workspace would open up possibilities for further development and analysis. The tools and packages used for this analysis would likely come from ‘scikit-learn’4 in the ensemble part of the module. 
	The objectives of my class research projects are:
1.	Develop a workflow for deriving surface metrics from DEMs
2.	Setup and develop a random forest algorithm to calculate wetland probability from NWI training data and the surface metrics in the DEMs

Sources:
1.	https://github.com/r-barnes/richdem	
2.	https://jblindsay.github.io/ghrg/WhiteboxTools/index.html	
3.	https://github.com/giswqs/lidar
4.	https://scikit-learn.org/stable/modules/ensemble.html#forest
